# Summary

Used MSE to test whether the management system is robust to the possibility of climate-induced changes in mean recruitment.
A stock recruit function was fitted within the assessment but forecast recruitment was governed by an AR-1 process,
related to the timing of the spring transition 3 years prior.
Spring transition could be delayed by up to one month with a doubling of atmospheric $CO_2$ concentrations. 
Rebuilding plans were implemented to recover to $40\%$ of unfished sapwning output, which is the default proxy for the 
target biomass of $B_{MSY}$. 

# Notes

During rebuilding a 40-10 control rule is used, where catch limits are set with a $F_{50\%}$ rather than $F_{MSY}$,
which is a more aggressive approach and led to biomass declines below the target level for most replicates.
Many iterations were rebuilt only to later become overfished because of the aggressive control rule used in the 
MSE. 

Many scenarios were not improved through the incorporation of environmental effects in the rebuilding plan. Often
their inclusion would lead to an increased catch compared to if they were not included and the recovery would
take longer.
The assessment was positively biased, a bias that increased with the extent of the environmental impact on recruitment.
Declining trends in recruitment are buffered by assuming average recruitment in the forecasting. 

If environmental effects are thought to exist, the best thing one can do is to update the rebuilding plan often, even
if no environmental effects are accounted for. Feedback procedures outperform non-feedback strategies when productivity
is non-stationary.
