Summary
=======

A framework for the objective selection of a suite of indicators to facilitate ecosystem-based management with respect to fisheries management.

-   avoid redundancy
-   select as few as possible
-   minimize the overall risk
-   management actions may lead to new, unforeseen problems
-   indicators give insight into the likely effects of actions
-   linear variation in an indicator is not always true

Framework
=========

1.  Users: Identify users who will define objectives, and then identify the major threats to achieving the objectives, which will help in scoping the indicators
2.  Candidate list: It is important to include all users that could be of interest to the indicators and then weed out indicators later
3.  Screening: All 9 criteria should be used, but may have varying levels of importance (e.g., "high", "med", "low"), each criteria will also be of different interest to user groups (e.g., "scientists", "managers", "public")

-   Concreteness
-   Theoretical basis
-   Cost
-   Measurement
-   Historical data
-   Sensitivity
-   Responsiveness
-   Specificity

1.  Scoring: Evaluate indicators against criteria, while simultaneously assessing the quality of information used for the judgment; bias, variance, accuracy, and precision will all play a roll
2.  Summarize:
3.  Number:
4.  Selection:
5.  Present:

References
==========

(Andreasen *et al.*, 2001, Bowen and Riley (2003), Rochet and Rice (2005))

Andreasen, J. K., O’Neill, R. V., Noss, R., and Slosser, N. C. 2001. Considerations for the development of a terrestrial index of ecological integrity. Ecological Indicators, 1: 21–35. Elsevier. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1470160X01000073> (Accessed 3 May 2016).

Bowen, R. E., and Riley, C. 2003. Socio-economic indicators and integrated coastal management. Ocean & Coastal Management, 46: 299–312. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0964569103000085>.

Rochet, M.-J., and Rice, J. C. 2005. Do explicit criteria help in selecting indicators for ecosystem-based fisheries management? ICES Journal of Marine Science: Journal du Conseil, 62: 528–539. <http://icesjms.oxfordjournals.org/content/62/3/528.abstract>.
