Used simulation to quantify the tradeoffs between traditional management and management that incorporated an environmental effects in forecasted management for three life-history types (herring, *Clupea harengus*; plaice, *Pleuronectes platessa*; and cod *Gadus morhua*).

-   OM: age structured, age-based selectivity, constant *M* and growth, inter-annual variability in weight-at-age was added using white-noise to weight-at-age (derived from von Bertalanffy model), recruitment was sum of environmental stock-recruit (eSR) relationship using SSB, the environmental factors from the previous year, and log-normal error, three eSR relationships were fit per species (Ricker, BH, and segmented regression)

-   EM: estimated temporal variability in weight-at-age using (\_{g,a})

-   SR: for each life-history three SR curves were fit to the data and analyzed for fit using AIC, the Ricker and segmented regression models displayed the best fit for cod and plaice and herring respectively.

-   Environment-recruit relationships: GAMs were used to explore NAO and various measures of temperature and salinity, where temperature and salinity data come from a three-dimensional coupled biophysical model of the North Sea. Temperature and salinity were averaged over relevant periods of the year and spatial areas of interest (e.g., bottom temperature during the spawning season in spawning area x). Models for simulation were selected using AIC. Herring was modeled using September-November average bottom salinity on spawning grounds around the Orkney Islands. Cod was modeled using average temperature during the first half of the year. Plaice was modeled using winter NAO in the year prior to spawning, the May-September average bottom temperature on the feeding grounds in the North Sea, and the average annual minimum bottom temperature over the spawning grounds in the southern North Sea. The relationship between average temperature on the feeding grounds and recruitment looks flat and may not explain a significant source of the variation about the SR relationship. The final relationship was the multiple of the (SR \* GAM). Predictions of the GAM were centered on zero by subtracting the mean of the historical recruitment time-series.

-   HCR: based on reference points regarding *SSB* and *F*. *Limit reference points* represent the biomass threshold below which there is an increased probability of impaired recruitment ((B\_{lim})) and the *F* that leads to (B\_{lim}) at equilibrium ((F\_{lim})). *Precautionary reference points* represent the biomass level above which the risk that (B\_{lim}) is low given uncertainty ((B\_{pa})) and (F\_{pa}) is the *F* that leads to (B\_{pa}) at equilibrium. (B\_{MSY}) is also considered even though it is not used in the management of ICES fish stocks. (B\_{MSY}) and *F* were calculated from the simulation, while (B\_{pa}) and (B\_{lim}) were taken from ICES reports. The first HCR (HCR1) exploited the stock at (F\_{MSY}). HCR2 fished at (F\_{pa}) when *SSB* was greater than (B\_{pa}) and when *SSB* fell below (B\_{pa}) but remained above (B\_{lim}) *F* decreased from (F\_{pa}) to (F\_{min}) proportional to ((B\_{pa}-SSB)/(B\_{pa}-B\_{lim})). When *SSB* decreased below (B\_{lim}), *F* was set at (F\_{min}). Ratio of (F\_{min}) to (F\_{pa}) is 0.4 and 0.5 for herring and code (derived from simulation) and was arbitrarily set to 0.4 for plaice. *SSB* of the current year with uncertainty (\$N(=SSB\_y,=0.085*SSB\_y)) was used for the HCR to determine the *F\* for the next year.
